# Notes on Jumu'ah

---

- If you catch 1 rakah, you have caught jumu'ah.
- If you miss it (after 2nd rakah), you pray and continue it as dhuhr.
- If you catch it after 2nd rakah and have niyyah for jumu'ah and only pray 2, you must pray dhuhr again.

- If was was comes in **ruku** whilst praying, you have caught jumu'ah.

---

## Opinions of Scholars

- **Ahmad & Shafi'i:** Pray in tribal masjid.
- **Malik & Hanafi:** Don’t have to pray.

    - Hadith of man climbing shoulders, he told him to sit down as he was harming others. However, something missing: had he prayed or not?

---

- **Khariji:** If there's not 40 men (sane) in a town, they don’t have to pray jumu'ah.
- **Muhammad never prayed jumu'ah in Makkah.**

---

## Conditions

- First jumu'ah had **40 men**, so this became a condition.
    - It must be a town.
    - Must have reached puberty.

---

### Number Required

- **Ahmad:** 3 people are enough.
- 12 is enough also, **Surat ul-Jumu'ah** — story when Anas went to the caravan.

- **Muhammad sent Mus'ab bin Umayr** to Madinah to give da'wah. He led the first jumu'ah.

    1. 
    2. 
    3.
    4.
    5.
    6.

    - Town
    - 40 men + reached puberty + intellect + Muslimeen

---

- **Abu Darr:** There aren't 3 that pray in jama'ah that shaytaan doesn't overcome them.

---

- **Muhammad:** No jumu'ah salah wajib upon the musafir.
- **First sermon:** He prayed salat 2 and combined w/ asr.

---

### Miscellaneous

- **16:** Better for musafir to pray jama'ah or alone.

---

- **Khariji:** If it's wajib for you to pray jumu'ah & you pray dhuhr, you must pray again after jumu'ah, as dhuhr can only be made up after jumu'ah.
