# Jumu'ah

---

### Muhad
- Last ummah but will enter Jannah first.
- Allah guided us to the right day.

---

### Muhad

- Best of days is Friday, Adam created, spirit blown into him. The hour will come on this day, indeed there is an hour where if you ask, Allah will give.

---

**Salaf** used to like working on this day.

---

### Ibn Hajar

- 45 opinions about salat al istighfah.
  1. Between Asr & Maghrib
  2. When Imam comes out with salah **(Muslim)**

---

### Ulama

- Jama'ah got together and didn't leave until agreeing it's between Asr & Maghrib on Friday.

---

**Greatest deed is the salah. Scholars say it is called Jumu'ah 'cos of root letters.**

---

### Muhad

- Whoever leaves 3 Jumu'ah, Allah puts a seal on his heart, & he becomes of the ghaafileen.

---

**Time of Jumu'ah according to most scholars comes after time of zawal.**

---

### Ahmed

- Praying before zawal is acceptable.

---

### Companions

- We used to pray & when going home saw the shadows, there was no shade (**meaning it was after zawal**).

---

### Khiraaji

- Ahmed never encouraged the salah before zawal, he just said it is not invalid.

---

### Ibn ul Qayyim

- You can critically degrade a hadith if it has exaggerated reward.

---

### Muhad

- Whoever does ghusl, & comes early & he walks & he doesn't ride & he sits close to the Imam & he listens, for every step he gets one year reward of fasting & praying.

---

### 1 Hour H

- Whoever goes in the first hour, like he sacrificed a camel  
- 2nd - cow  
- 3rd - chicken  
- 4th - egg  

---

**Camul**  
- Banu chuluk egs
