*Muhammad* used to stand after ruku until every bone was replaced.

*Imam Ahmad:* 
- Putting hands back increases khushoo’ & increases humility before Allah.
 
## Go into sujood: 

Knees, hands, head then nose -*Ahmad, Shafi’, Haneefa, Umar used to do this*  

*Maliki:* 
- Hands first -*Abdullah ibn Umar*

*Abu Hurairah:*
- Don’t go down how the camel does, hands before knees. -*Weak Hadith*  
    These are not wajibat, a person goes down in ease.
Narrated by *Abdullah ibn al-Hasan*  
- He was not a teacher of hadith.

- If Imam Ahmad didn’t find ayah hadith, he went to statements of companions.
- Imam Malik went to people of Madeenah.
- Imam Hanafi made ijtihad, analogy, as he said companions done this.

*Khiraqi:* knees, hands, head, nose.

"I was commanded to do sujood on 7." – *Ibn Abbas*

*Ibn Rajab:*
If nose doesn't touch, ijma that sujood is fine.

- Complain of heat to Muhammad + sujood, not taken into consideration.
- They used to make sujood on sleeves, imaamah - *hadith*.
- Don’t make sujood like a day — *Muhammad*.

- Feet together in sujood — *A’isha:* "I woke up & couldn’t find Muhammad, put my hand out & found his feet, touched both, together."
- Toes facing Qibla

Abu Humayd ~ 10 companions agreed he was most knowledgeable about salah
- Sunan Abi Dawood
- Tirmidhi
- Bukhari

- Say subhanallah rabbial-a'la x3 - (once is enough)

- All of Muhammad's ruku, standing after ruku & sujood were all proportionate

- Allahu akbar & come up, rabbighfirlee x2 (or as many)
  Sit on left foot, right foot facing qibla. — *al-iftirash*

- Come up with weight on your knees (hands first)

- Iftiraaj: come up, hands on knees & knees last.

- "The resting sitting position (Jalsatul ishtiraha)" — *Imam Shafi'i* likes this
  
*Malik ibn Huwairith*
- 20 days w/ Muhammad.
- Sat before getting up

- *Umar, Ali, Ibn Abbas* all get up right away.
- *Nu'man'* (Tabi'i) — "I met more than 30 companions who got up"

- *Imam Ahmad 2nd opinion:* Muhammad never gave this name. 1st opinion — it is only sunnah.

- *Abu Humayd* - "most knowledgeable of salah" - he sat before getting up

- *Al-Khallal:* Jami' book, 100 volumes, teacher of Khiraqi - he found all of Imam Ahmad's students
  Ahmad's last opinion was to sit

- Quran is not to be recited in ruku or sujood - *Hadith*
    You are in humble positions, and this is kalam of Allah
