# Description of the Prayer

Scholars say salaah is the best deed

- "Whoever hears the adhaan and doesn't respond, he has no salaah." - *Muhammad* - (If he doesn't go masjid)

- "If there was some meat in the masjid, some would come." - *Muhammad*

**Allahummaftahlee abwaba rahmatik** – *dua for entering masjid*.

- "Go back + pray – you haven't prayed." - *Abu Hurayrah - Hadith about the one who prayed badly*

Among 10/11 companions **Abu Humayd** mentioned the salaah & said:  
  “I'm The most knowledgeable about the salaah” – They all agreed

Ahnaaf say – Cannot stop any ibadah, even nawaafil.

**Niyyah**
    - Men came late to masjid, Muhammad said "who will give this man charity?"
      Abu Bakr led them as his sunan

**Allahu Akbar** – Raise hands to ear lobes  
    - *Maliki ibn Huwayrith*
    - Shoulders – *Ibn Umar, Abu Hurairah*

Mukhalafa – To go against the sunnah.

*Imam Ahmad* – More than 1 opinion on where to place the hands  
- *Khiraqi* – Followed below belly button opinion.

*Malik* –  
- Abdurrahman bin Qasim said Malik disliked "grasping" (grabbing the arm)

*Shafi'i* –  
- Early scholars said. Shafi'i said: Showing beard is haram.  
- Latest scholars: *Nawwawi* – Shafi'i said, mukroo
Make takhreej (Rerecite) – Shafi`i's makroo means haram.

*Ahmad* – Below neck, on navel, below navel

Fatiha + surah in first 2 rakah.  
In the next rakah, only read Fatiha.

*Isha* – Surah Shams, layl, duha – *Muadh ibn Jabal*

If one of you leads, make the prayer light, weak & elderly – *Muhammad*

