## Tashahhud

- *1st Tashahhud*

- In Tashahhud, circle thumb + fore, middle finger, point w/ index ✗

- Hanafi - Hadith that Muhammad only pointed when saying shahada.
- Hanbali - Keep finger up throughout. (most Hanbalis, some say only during Shahada)

- No movement – most scholars – "movement is a weak addition"
- Raising of the finger is cos it's dua.
- Muhammad raised finger on mimbar
- When he made dua for rain, his palms would be facing down.


"He taught me it with *both* my hand between his two." > Tashahhud of *Abdullah bin Mas'ud*
*Muhammad* to Abdullah bin Mas'oud - "If you do this, your salaam will reach every righteous servant in this world."

Hanafi + Hanbali Like this tashahhud.
Shafi'i Likes Abdullah ibn Abbas.
Malik Likes Umar bin Khattab, he taught it on Friday on the mimbar.

- Most scholars of sahaba & tabi'een use Abdullah bin Mas'ud's.
- Malik liked *Umar's* superior: "Follow 2 after me", he said it on Fridays & nobody objected.

- Not mustahab to send salam/salawat – *most scholars*.

- Abu Bakr sat in 1st tashahhud as if he sat on hot coals, not very long.

If Imam is taking long, repeat same tashahhud.
Reading different tashahhud becomes an innovation.

*2nd Tashahhud*

*Abu Humayd* -"At-tawarruk" – bum on floor, left foot under right thigh.

At-tawarruk is only for salaah with 2 tashahhuds. (Not Fajr)

Around 10 ways to send salam/ salawat on Muhammad

Scholars dislike different qira'at in loud prayers, may confuse those behind you.

*Sending Salah is a pillar* - Ordered by Muhammad.

*Old Hanbali scholars* - Khiraqi said wajib

Khiraqi: after salah upon Muhammad, seek refuge from 4:
- Hell / Fire / Dajjal / Death

Said this dua is mustahabb.

Senior student of Abdullah bin Masud asked his son if he made this dua, he said no, so he said repeat your salah.

Some scholars say if you ask for worldly gain, your salah is invalid.

*Sufyan ath-Thawree* fled from the leader at the time, he wanted to stay away from the fitna of money.

*Muhammad* - "Speech of the people is not befitting in salah"
  - When someone said "alhamdulillah, subhanallah" → no dua in other language.
  - Allah doesn't accept "the headless dua".

## Tasleem

*Aisha:*
- Muhammad once looked straight and said tasleem.
- After, Imam turns around & faces people.

