# Shuroot of Salah

1. *Cover the awrah** – navel to knees                                  
    - Something on 'aatiq – area between shoulder & neck - (both need covering)
    - "None of you should pray unless something is on his 'aatiq (shoulders)"

*Imam Abu Hanifa* - Knees must be covered too. (Safer opinion)

*Ibn Qudama* in Al-Mughni:
- 2 awrah – severe (private parts) + not (thighs)

- If you go hajj/umrah, and you lose upper garment, you can still pray.

*Khiraqi*
- If you miss one of the shuroot, even by error, then salah is invalid except:
    - Qibla is wrong
    - Najasa on the clothes

*Ammar Ibn Salama* (Bukhari)
- 7/8 years old
- Boy leads Sahaba in salah
- He learned Quran from people passing through his village.
- *Muhammad* said: "He is your imam."
    - His awrah backside would show in salah
    - He was too poor to afford thawb
    - Village bought him thawb
*Imam Ahmad* said 'these small things are overlooked, this and small amounts of najasa.'

- Covering up awrah with haram (silk): it is a sin but salah is valid, no evidence to say no it is not.
    - Like, doing wudhu with stolen water.

- *Imam Malik* would advise people to repeat Salah even if they left a sunnah.

- Whoever isn’t able to cover his awrah, he should pray sitting down.

- Person asked *Abdullah Ibn Umar* – group of people shipwrecked, no clothes, he said: 'pray sitting.'
Covering awrah > Standing in salah

*Shafiʿi* - He should pray standing up as *Muhammad* said: "Pray standing, if you are able to."

ʿAwrah is covering skin and body form
  - *Asma bint Abu Bakr*: she was given a dress/khamis. She rejected it as it was tight.

If person is naked:

- Pray sitting, privates uncovered.
- Do not make sujood, gesture it.
- *Abdullah ibn Umar*: shipwrecked people hadith.

If in Jamaʿa:

- Pray in one line, even imam.
- Make gestures for rukuʿ & sujood.
- Sit/lay down.
- *Imam Ahmad*: they (he/they) may make rukuʿ/sujood as front ʿawrah is covered.

ʿAwrah of Woman:

- Free woman covers everything but face & hands – *Umar bin Khattab*
    - ikhtilaf on hands – valid
    - Top of feet should be covered
- *Umm Salamah* hadith: *Muhammad* said – women should pray in Dirr & Khimaar.
    - No need for socks, if dress covers the top.
- *Imam Abu Hanifa* said: Feet can be uncovered.

- Slave woman can have head uncovered (Notably differed but *Hasan Al-Basri*)
- *Khiraqi* – desirable for umm ul-walad to cover her head.
- *Umm ul-Walad* – if free man had child with slave, if man dies, woman is now umm ul-walad.

