# Praying while having physical impurity

## Khariji
- If his clothes aren't clean, or the place, then repeat the prayer.  
- Scholars say clean clothes/place is a *shart*.

## Athar: Sa'id al-Khudri
- To some scholars: If he didn't know and realises after, he doesn't need to repeat.

## Sa'id ibn Mansur (to Hadith)
- Ibn Qasim came to Muhammad, he took off his sandals.

### Shafi'i
- Repeat salah

### Maliki
- Repeat salah if time is still there.

## Khariji
- Same applies if he prays in graveyard or toilet.

---

### al-hammam
- Public bathhouse (old)
- *New* = bathroom

### al-hash
- Place where no fruit or vegetation grows.

---

## Khariji
- Cannot pray in area where camels sleep, open & closed.

---

## Khusoo' for our ummah
- Whole earth is masjid for us, **minus these**:

---

### Maliki
- "Should we pray in the area where the sheep are kept?"

### Muhammad
- "Yes you can pray."

- Where our camels are kept?
  - "No, don't pray there."

---

### 1.
- Camels are used by their owners for a urinating barrier - Umar bin Khattab

### 2.
- Camels can harm you.

### 3.
- Link between camels and jinn - Ibn Taymiyyah

---

**Al-hushush**
- Used by jinn, place of jinn & shayateen.

---

- *Heat of the sun* wakes them up.

---

**Long famous slept before fajr:** Bilal told to stay awake, shaytan came & tickled. Bilal had as mother cocks her baby.  
- They were woken up by heat of the sun. *Shaytaan has been here*.  
- They moved to another place.

---

### Muhammad
- Do not sit or pray towards graves, on graves.

---

**All these places are places of impurity.**
