# Chapter of Eid

---

**Mihnad** - you had eidayn in *jahiliyyah* so Allah gave you eidayn in Islam.

**Mihnad** - best day is **10th dhul hijjah**.

**Malik & Shafi'i** - *Sunnah* to pray  
- Mihnad | Nomad who asked about tabe islam, Mihnad only mentioned S. Nomad asked any more? Mihnad said no.

**Hanbali:** Fardh kifayah - If under three leave it, imam fights them (like Abu Bakr).

**Hanafi:** Fardh ayn  
- Tamyiz/ift. Ummah

**Umm Atiyyah:** we were ordered all to go out to the Eid prayer and to take the shy women, and the women on hade, to join in the dua for muslims.

**Mufassireen:** Say Al-kawthar: 2 is about Eid.

**Khilaf:** 
- Takbir starts as soon as fasting finishes on the night.
- Any kind of **takbir**.

**Khilaf:** 
- They should do *ghusl*, mustahabb.
- Hanbalis: to eat before you leave on **Eid ul-fitr.**
- Wear good clothes & att

---

- Imam will pray 2 raka'at with no adhaan or iqamah.
- **Mihnad** prayed in open space.
- Pray before the khutbah - **it is sunnah**

- **Mihnad** recited aloud a flashlight, Saff + Qamar - *(Muslim)*

---

## Takbirs (Ahmad, Hanafi, etc.)

**Ahmad:**  
- **7** including first takbir-at-ihram (in first rak’ah)
- **5** excluding second takbir (rukn) (in second rak’ah)  
  takbir-at-intiqal

**Ahmad:** There is more than one narration.

**Hanafi:**
- **3** extra in first rak'ah
- **3** extra in second rak'ah before takbir al-intiqal  
  Abdullah bin Mas’ood done this

---

### Raising Hands

- **Hanafi, Ahmad, Malik, Shafi'i:** Raise hands for each takbir
- **Malik & Sufyan ath-Thawree:** Only raise hands for first takbir

---
